============================================
 Example Code -- Time based filters
============================================

Concept
-------
The TIME_BASED_FILTER QosPolicy allows you to specify that data should not be 
delivered more than once per specified period for data-instances of a 
DataReader, regardless of how fast DataWriters are publishing new samples of the
data-instance.

This QoS policy allows you to optimize resource usage (CPU and possibly network 
bandwidth) by only delivering the required amount of data to different 
DataReaders.

DataWriters may send data faster than needed by a DataReader. For example, a 
DataReader of sensor data that is displayed to a human operator in a GUI 
application does not need to receive data updates faster than a user can 
reasonably perceive changes in data values. This is often measure in tenths 
(0.1) of a second up to several seconds. However, a DataWriter of sensor 
information may have DataReaders that are processing the sensor information to 
control parts of the system and thus need new data updates in measures of 
hundredths (0.01) or thousandths (0.001) of a second.

With this QoS policy, different DataReaders can set their own time-based 
filters, so that data published faster than the period set by a DataReader will 
be dropped by the middleware and not delivered to the DataReader. Note that all 
filtering takes place on the reader side. 

Example Description
--------------------
In this example, the Publisher application publishes samples of two different
instances: instance0 and instance1. Samples of instance0 are published every
0.25 seconds, whereas samples of instance1 are published every 0.5 seconds. 

The Subscriber sets a time-based filter with a minimum separation of 2 seconds. 
Samples arriving earlier than this are silently dropped. The minimum separation 
is determined per-instance, so samples from different instances may arrive 
faster than the minimum separation time.

Although filtering may be done by the writer, this is not guaranteed, so 
implementing a time-based filter will not necessarily reduce network traffic. 
Asynchronous publishing and flow controllers, however, will directly limit the 
bandwidth a writer can use. 

This QoS is not request-offered, as there is no corresponding QoS on the 
DataWriter side. However, to be consistent within a DataReader QoS, the 
minimum_separation must be less than any requested deadline. Thus, there is an 
indirect dependence on the DataWriter settings.

In the example we have set the time-based filter QoS via XML. That is, we have 
set the following default QoS in the USER_QOS_PROFILES.xml file:

<datareader_qos>
	<time_based_filter>
		<minimum_separation>
			<sec>2</sec>
			<nanosec>0</nanosec>
		</minimum_separation>
	</time_based_filter>
</datareader_qos>

If you want to set the time-based filter QoS programmatically, you will find 
that code commented out in the subscriber application.  
